Mpox a 'troublesome' but manageable virus; no need for masks yet: Ong Ye Kung. Current evidence shows that mpox is spread mainly through close physical contact but the Ministry of Health will consider implementing the wearing of masks if there is evidence of significant respiratory transmission.. SINGAPORE: The no-mask stance for people who are well is supported by existing evidence of how mpox is transmitted, said Health Minister Ong Ye Kung on Wednesday (Sep 4).. At a press conference to provide updates on public health preparedness measures, Mr Ong characterised mpox as a "troublesome" virus but one that Singapore can manage.. Mpox is spread mainly through close physical contact with an infected person, said the minister, citing current evidence. This contact includes sex, kissing or just merely touching. . But if there is evidence of significant respiratory transmission, such as outside of households and in public areas, the health ministry will consider introducing rules on wearing masks on public transport and in crowded indoor places.. Mr Ong played down mpox comparisons with COVID-19, saying that there was no need to raise the infectious disease alert level to that of a public health threat, which was what Singapore implemented during the coronavirus pandemic.. The level for mpox is currently at “outbreak management” – one tier above the baseline. . "We think this is likely to be a troublesome virus that we can manage. It will very unlikely lead to the kind of disruption that happened during COVID-19," said Mr Ong. . MOH said in its press release, which was also issued on Wednesday, that mpox is less infectious than COVID-19. . “Every person infected with mpox spreads the disease to an average of 1.3 other persons. Comparatively, without measures, each case of COVID-19 and its subsequent variants spreads to an average of two to five persons," read the release. . However, Mr Ong cautioned against complacency, adding that authorities will continue to monitor the situation and be prepared to respond, adopt and even decisively implement certain measures should it be necessary.. MEASURES IN SINGAPORE. In Singapore's preschools and schools, existing measures for other infectious diseases remain relevant, said MOH, noting that students will be visually screened for symptoms. . Together with the Ministry of Manpower and the National Environment Agency, MOH is conducting wastewater testing at migrant worker dormitories and the Onboard Centre. Mr Ong said wastewater testing is being conducted at 120 dormitories currently. . Newly arrived work permit holders also go through temperature and visual screening.. If there are any suspected adult and paediatric clade 1 cases identified by primary care providers, they will be taken to the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) and KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital respectively. Families with both adults and children who are suspected cases will be taken to the National University Hospital, said MOH. . Once a clade 1 case is confirmed, MOH will immediately start contact tracing. Close contacts will be quarantined in a designated government facility, with the quarantine period set at 21 days.. Clade 1 cases will continue to be isolated in healthcare facilities until they are no longer infectious to prevent further exposure to the community.. Mpox has two subtypes, clade 1 and clade 2. The latter is less severe.. Singapore has stepped up precautionary measures at its borders since Aug 23, by conducting temperature and visual screening at air and sea checkpoints for travellers and crew arriving from places that may be exposed to the risk of mpox outbreaks. . All travellers must report mpox-related symptoms like fever or rash, as well as their travel history, through the SG Arrival Card, MOH said previously.. NO CLADE 1 INFECTIONS IN SINGAPORE TO DATE. To date, Singapore has not detected any clade 1 infection. All 14 mpox cases in the country so far this year have been of the less severe clade 2 subtype.. The WHO has said that more than 18,000 suspected mpox cases and about 630 deaths have been recorded in the Democratic Republic of Congo this year.. That figure includes over 5,000 cases and 31 deaths in regions where the new, deadlier clade 1b has been spreading.. Sweden on Aug 15 announced the first case of the clade 1b strain outside Africa.. On Aug 22, Thailand confirmed Asia's first known case of the clade 1b strain. A 66-year-old European man landed in Bangkok from Africa on Aug 14 and was taken to hospital with mpox symptoms.